---
layout: post
title: "Rails 3.1 is out with jQuery by default, asset pipelining and a bunch of other good stuff"
author: Tors
date: 2011-08-30 15:37:14 +0800
categories:
- rails3.1
---

I was actually browsing Twitter when "@tenderlove":https://twitter.com/tenderlove announced that Rails 3.1 has been released. 

Here are some highlights of the major changes in Rails 3.1.0 as posted in the official "RubyOnRails":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org blog.

h3. "ActionPack":https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/3-1-stable/actionpack/CHANGELOG

* ActionPack has been updated to include the new asset pipeline.  Please see the "rails guides on the asset pipeline":http://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/asset_pipeline.html

* Streaming response support has been added.  This feature allows you to stream templates to the user before processing has actually finished.  See the Rails Guides, or documentation in `ActionController::Metal::Streaming` for more information.  Middleware have been refactored to support this feature.

* RJS has been extracted to a gem.

h3. "ActiveModel":https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/3-1-stable/activemodel/CHANGELOG

* `attr_accessible` and friends now accepts :as as option to specify a role
* Added `ActiveModel::SecurePassword` to encapsulate dead-simple password usage with BCrypt encryption and salting.

h3. "ActiveRecord":https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/3-1-stable/activerecord/CHANGELOG

* Prepared statement caches have been integrated.  `ActiveRecord::Base#create` and simple finders will use a prepared statement and cache for more performant inserts and selects.

* Associations have been refactored for greater simplicity and maintainability.

* `default_scope` can take any object that responds to `call`.

* PostgreSQL adapter only supports PostgreSQL version 8.2 and higher.

* Migrations use instance methods rather than class methods.  Rather than defining a `self.up` method, you should define an instance method `up`.

* Migrations are reversible.  When a new migration is generated, the migration will contain one method called `change`.  Database changes made in this method will automatically know how to reverse themselves.  For more information, see the documentation for `ActiveRecord::Migration` and `ActiveRecord::Migration::CommandRecorder`.

* When a model is generated, `add_index` is added by default for `belongs_to` or `references` columns.

h3. "ActiveResource":https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/3-1-stable/activeresource/CHANGELOG 

* The default format has been changed to JSON for all requests. If you want to continue to use XML you will need to set `self.format = :xml` in the class.

h3. "ActiveSupport":https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/3-1-stable/activesupport/CHANGELOG

* ActiveSupport::BufferedLogger set log encoding to BINARY, but still use text mode to output portable newlines.

* Add Object#in? to test if an object is included in another object.

* ActiveSupport::Dependencies::ClassCache class has been introduced for holding references to reloadable classes.

* Added `weeks_ago` and `prev_week` to Date/DateTime/Time.

* JSON decoding now uses the `multi_json` gem which also vendors a json engine called OkJson. The yaml backend has been removed in favor of OkJson as a default engine for 1.8.x, while the built in 1.9.x json implementation will be used by default.

h3. "Railties":https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/3-1-stable/railties/CHANGELOG

* The default database schema file is written as UTF-8.

* Rack::Sendfile middleware is used only if `x_sendfile_header` is present.

* Add alias `r` for rails runner.

* jQuery is the new default JavaScript library.

* Added `config.force_ssl` configuration which loads Rack::SSL middleware and force all requests to be under HTTPS protocol

There's too much good stuff on this release. Props to @tenderlove and the rest of the contributors for awesome release.
